Storage partitioning Deprecation trial announcement (#5238)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/storage-partitioning-deprecation-trial/index.md

---
layout: "layouts/blog-post.njk"

> title: "Participate in Deprecation Trial for unpartitioned third-party storage, Service Workers, and Communication APIs"

Reviewer: Also, I am not exactly sure how the title should be capitalized, but this seems a little wonky (my bad)? Maybe "Participate in Deprecation Trial for Unpartitioned Third-Party Storage, Service Workers, and Communication APIs"

> title: "Participate in Deprecation Trial for unpartitioned third-party storage, Service Workers, and Communication APIs"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Participate in deprecation trial for unpartitioned third-party storage, Service Workers, and Communication APIs"
```

description: >

>   Beginning gradually in Chrome 112, storage, service workers, and communication APIs will be partitioned in third-party contexts. For sites that need time to adjust to this new feature, these deprecation trials will allow them to temporarily keep their third-party storage, service workers, and communication APIs unpartitioned.

Reviewer 2: (Chrome 113 here too)

>   Beginning gradually in Chrome 112, storage, service workers, and communication APIs will be partitioned in third-party contexts. For sites that need time to adjust to this new feature, these deprecation trials will allow them to temporarily keep their third-party storage, service workers, and communication APIs unpartitioned.

Author: ```suggestion
  Beginning gradually in Chrome 113, storage, service workers, and communication APIs will be partitioned in third-party contexts. For sites that need time to adjust to this new feature, these deprecation trials will allow them to temporarily keep their third-party storage, service workers, and communication APIs unpartitioned.
```

authors:
  - arichiv
  - kyraseevers
date: 2023-03-09
tags:
  - privacy
---

> Beginning gradually in [Chrome 112](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule),

Reviewer: Should now read: [Chrome 113]

> Beginning gradually in [Chrome 112](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule),

Author: ```suggestion
Beginning gradually in [Chrome 113](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule),
```

storage, service workers, and communication APIs will be
[partitioned in third-party contexts](/docs/privacy-sandbox/storage-partitioning/).
In addition to being isolated by the same-origin policy, the affected APIs used
in third-party contexts would also be separated by the site of the top-level
context. Sites that haven't had time to implement support for third-party
storage partitioning can take part in a deprecation trial to temporarily
**unpartition** (continue isolation by same-origin policy but remove isolation
by top-level site) and restore prior behavior of storage, service workers, and
communication APIs in content embedded on their site.

In addition to a general unpartitioning deprecation trial, it's possible to
participate in a focused deprecation trial just for `window.sessionStorage`.
This trial is available due to a need for some sites to migrate their Firebase
`signInWithRedirect` flow. For more information on that migration see
[this article](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/redirect-best-practices).

## Available deprecation trials

> Starting in [Chrome 111 Beta](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule), we'll

Reviewer: Should now be: [Chrome 112 Beta]

> Starting in [Chrome 111 Beta](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule), we'll

Author: ```suggestion
Starting in [Chrome 112 Beta](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule), we'll
```

open up two deprecation trials:

1.  [`DisableThirdPartyStoragePartitioning`](/origintrials/#/view_trial/-8517432795264450559):
    allows a top-level site to unpartition (temporarily remove isolation by
    top-level site) in storage, service workers, and communication APIs in
    third-party content embedded on its pages.
1.  [`DisableThirdPartySessionStoragePartitioningAfterGeneralPartitioning`](/origintrials/#/view_trial/3444127815031586817):
    allows a site to unpartition sessionStorage across navigations.

These will enable sites to discover and fix problems before third-party

> partitioning begins its rollout process in M112.

Reviewer: Should now read `M113`

> partitioning begins its rollout process in M112.

Author: ```suggestion
partitioning begins its rollout process in Chrome 113.
```

Below is an overview of the deprecation trial and what to expect. If you have
feedback to share or you experience any issues throughout this trial let us know
in the
[Partitioned Storage Deprecation Trial Github repository](https://github.com/miketaylr/partitioned-storage-deprecation-trial-feedback).

### DisableThirdPartyStoragePartitioning

> The following APIs will remain unpartitioned in third-party contexts should you
> enroll the top-level site in the `DisableThirdPartyStoragePartitioning`
> deprecation trial:
> [Storage APIs](https://github.com/wanderview/quota-storage-partitioning/blob/main/explainer.md#storage-apis)
> (i.e.: localStorage, sessionStorage, IndexedDB, Quota, etc.),
> [Communication APIs](https://github.com/wanderview/quota-storage-partitioning/blob/main/explainer.md#communication-apis)
> (i.e. BroadcastChannel, SharedWorkers, and WebLocks), and
> [ServiceWorker API](https://github.com/wanderview/quota-storage-partitioning/blob/main/explainer.md#serviceworker-api).
> 

Author: ```suggestion
The following APIs will remain unpartitioned in third-party contexts should you
enroll the top-level site in the `DisableThirdPartyStoragePartitioning`
deprecation trial:
[Storage APIs](https://github.com/wanderview/quota-storage-partitioning/blob/main/explainer.md#storage-apis)
(such as localStorage, sessionStorage, IndexedDB, Quota, and other),
[Communication APIs](https://github.com/wanderview/quota-storage-partitioning/blob/main/explainer.md#communication-apis)
(such as BroadcastChannel, SharedWorkers, and WebLocks), and
[ServiceWorker API](https://github.com/wanderview/quota-storage-partitioning/blob/main/explainer.md#serviceworker-api).

```

{% Aside 'caution' %}
For this `DisableThirdPartyStoragePartitioning` trial, the origin trial token must be included via an HTML `<meta>` tag and not an `Origin-Trial` HTTP header.
{% endAside %}

Example:

{% Img src="image/vgdbNJBYHma2o62ZqYmcnkq3j0o1/dqBSsNU8W3HOmMkPDYYh.png", alt="Storage partitioning diagram", width="800", height="544" %}

For a more detailed explanation, check out the
[project explainer](https://github.com/wanderview/quota-storage-partitioning/blob/main/explainer.md).

### DisableThirdPartySessionStoragePartitioningAfterGeneralPartitioning

If you enroll in the
`DisableThirdPartySessionStoragePartitioningAfterGeneralPartitioning`
deprecation trial, navigating a tab to an enrolled origin will cause all
cross-site iframes of that same origin to remain unpartitioned only for

> `Window.sessionStorage` only and only for the lifetime of that particular tab.

Reviewer: Omit the extra `only` after window.sessionStorage

> `Window.sessionStorage` only and only for the lifetime of that particular tab.

Author: ```suggestion
`Window.sessionStorage` and only for the lifetime of that particular tab.
```

Whereas the `DisableThirdPartyStoragePartitioning` deprecation trial affects all
third-party contexts embedded within the enrolled origin, the
`DisableThirdPartySessionStoragePartitioningAfterGeneralPartitioning`
deprecation trial instead registers a given origin to receive unpartitioned
access when embedded in third-party contexts.

{% Aside %}
The `DisableThirdPartySessionStoragePartitioningAfterGeneralPartitioning` trial will work via HTML `<meta>` or an `Origin-Trial` HTTP header.
{% endAside %}

Example:

{% Img src="image/vgdbNJBYHma2o62ZqYmcnkq3j0o1/6uxCgy48dDcfFVgkwycu.png", alt="Storage partitioning diagram after general paritoning.", width="800", height="432" %}

## What does this mean for web developers?

Sites should audit their usage of unpartitioned storage, service worker, and
communication APIs in third-party contexts, and, if needed, prepare for
third-party partitioning before these deprecation trials expire. **The intent is

> to expire these deprecation trials with M123 on March 5, 2024.**

Reviewer: Now M124 on April 2, 2024

Reviewer: Hey sorry - I was wrong - the OT registration site states: M123 ending on May 2, 2024. https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/view_trial/-8517432795264450559

> to expire these deprecation trials with M123 on March 5, 2024.**

Author: ```suggestion
to expire these deprecation trials with Chrome 123, ending on May 2, 2024.**
```

To instruct the browser to unpartition storage in third-party content embedded
on its pages, top-level sites need to register for one or both of the
deprecation trials and add the corresponding trial token(s) to their HTTP
response headers (see detailed example below).

Each deprecation trial is available on Windows, Mac, Linux, Chrome OS, Android,
and Android WebView.

> ## Participate in the Deprecation Trials

Author: ```suggestion
## Participate in the deprecation trials
```

The following is a brief overview of how to participate in one or both of the
deprecation trials. For more detailed instructions, visit
[Get started with origin trials](/docs/web-platform/origin-trials).

> 1.  Launch Chrome M111 (or later) and ensure the

Reviewer: Should now be `M112`

    [`ThirdPartyStoragePartitioning`](/blog/storage-partitioning-dev-trial/)
    flag is enabled.
1.  Verify that the behavior of third-party content embedded in your
    top-level site is broken by storage partitioning (if not, then no need to
    participate in the Deprecation Trials).
1.  Register for the deprecation trial and get a token for your domains by
    visiting the following:
    1.  For a top-level site to unpartition storage, service workers,
        and communication APIs in its third-party embedded content:

>         `[DisableThirdPartyStoragePartitioning](/origintrials/#/view_trial/-8517432795264450559)`

Reviewer: For some reason this link doesn't appear to be rendering correctly in the preview

Author: It's a known preview quirk, it will work in production.

    1.  For a top-level site to unpartition sessionStorage across
        navigations:

>         `[DisableThirdPartySessionStoragePartitioningAfterGeneralPartitioning](/origintrials/#/view_trial/3444127815031586817)`

Reviewer: Same with this link rendering incorrectly

Author: Same here, preview issue.

1.  Add an origin trial token to your page:
    1. For the `DisableThirdPartySessionStoragePartitioningAfterGeneralPartitioning` trial you may add an `Origin-Trial: <DEPRECATION TRIAL TOKEN>` to         your top-level site’s HTTP response header, where `<DEPRECATION TRIAL TOKEN>` contains the token you got when registering for the deprecation             trial. You can also do this via HTML `<meta> tag.
    1. For the `DisableThirdPartyStoragePartitioning` trial, the token must be given via an HTML `<meta>` tag. The HTTP header method is not supported.

> 1.  Load your website in Chrome M111 Beta (or later) with

Reviewer: Should be `M112 Beta`

> 1.  Load your website in Chrome M111 Beta (or later) with

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Load your website in Chrome 112 Beta (or later) with
```
